# github-tools

## Overview

This repository contains tools for working with GitHub repositories from
the command line. For now there is just one (`gh-pr-query`).

## Installation

First install the dependency, `PyGithub`:

```
pip install PyGithub
```

Then clone this repository and make sure that the top-level script,
`gh-pr-query` is in your path - either by adding the clone directory to
your path or by making a symbolic link somewhere that is already in your
path.

## Tools contained here

### gh-pr-query

Tool for querying GitHub Pull Requests

To show all comments in a pull request:

    gh-pr-query -r REPO -p PR_NUMBER -s

To show all of the outstanding todo items in all comments in a pull request
(i.e., all unchecked checkboxes):

    gh-pr-query -r REPO -p PR_NUMBER -t

For more detailed help, run

    gh-pr-query -h
    
## Providing a personal access token

The tools here accept an optional argument (`-a` / `--access-token`),
via which you can provide a GitHub personal access token. This is a
personal, random string generated by GitHub, which is NOT the same as
your GitHub password. These are described in more detail here:
<https://help.github.com/en/github/authenticating-to-github/creating-a-personal-access-token-for-the-command-line>. For
tools that only do read operations on public repositories, an access
token is not required. However, GitHub rate-limits fetches via the API,
and the limit is very small if you do not provide an access token. So,
in order to do more than a few queries per hour, you will likely need to
set up and provide a personal access token. If you only need read access
to public repositories, then you do not need to check any of the boxes
when setting up your access token.

You should protect this access token as you would a password. Tips for
how to do this are given in the wiki.

## Demo additions

This change is just for the sake of making a demo PR.
